---
description: Felipe Ribeiro Biography
icon: diagram-sankey
---

# Biography

## Historiographical Remarks

**Felipe Ribeiro Endeavors and Ventures** have inspired poems, essays, and artworks in many parts of the world. This succinct authorized [documentary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Documentary_film) [biography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biography), taking into consideration the [docufiction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docufiction) limits of [historiography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historiography), is being developed mainly offline by volunteers from all over the world developing [biographical research](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biographical_research) in collaboration with his family, intimate friends, colleagues, and overall cooperators through the course of several years which explains the positive.&#x20;

|                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <p><a href="biography.md#interfaith-childhood"><strong>Interfaith Diplomacy</strong></a> <br>1980s to Now</p> | <p><a href="biography.md#solidarity-adolescence"><strong>Solidarity Aid</strong></a><br>1990s to Now</p>                 | <p><a href="biography.md#philosophy-baccalaureate"><strong>Philosophy Scholarship</strong></a><br>2000s to Now</p> |
| <p><a href="biography.md#cultural-development"><strong>Cultural Development</strong></a><br>2000s to Now</p>  | <p><a href="biography.md#religious-ministry"><strong>Religious Ministry</strong></a><br>2010s to Now</p>                 | <p><a href="biography.md#peace-aid"><strong>Peace Humanitarianism</strong></a><br>2010s to Now</p>                 |
|                                                                                                               | <p><a href="biography.md#international-policymaking"><strong>International Policymaking</strong></a><br>2020s to Now</p> |                                                                                                                    |

> _"I respect peacemaking secular interfaith cultural diplomacy as my birth, social security and charity care as my childhood, popular pedagogy and open source technologies as my adolescence, philosophy and psychology as my collegiate alma mater, culture and nature as my eternal connection to God's gift of life, arts and crafts as my relation to our elders’ wisdom, diplomacy and development as my duty to future generations, law and science as the safeguards of my adulthood, solidarity economy policymaking and chaplaincy aid as my daily routine.”_

## **Interfaith Diplomacy Origins**

**1983. Felipe Ribeiro was Conceived in Buenos Aires and Born in the 10th of February in the City of São Paulo in Brazil:** From an Agnostic military agroforester engineer father, son of a temples janitor and a rural worker, with an orphanage raised Catholic manager artisan housewife mother, daughter of an fleeing apothecary and a nightclub hostess. Soon he moved to the countryside of Bauru (New Beyreuth) arid county of the farthest west where he was raised between the Saint Joseph Convent Catholic  School, where he learnt the due respect to authorities, and the devastated fields, where he usually wandered to listen to the winds and climb trees to eat fruits and spread seeds.

**1991. Helpful Poor Interfaith Studious Family and Workers Neighborhood:** Felipe Ribeiro had to flee violence when he was just 8 years old so that he had to care for his mother and sister, from a very young age back in São Paulo where he went to live with their multiethnic multifaith multicultural family which include an Spiritist grandmother, internationally awarded inventors Shinto and Buddhist Oriental uncles and aunts, Indigenous half-cousins, a black niece from a Candomblé father, an Umbanda sourcerer aunt and stepmother, a Wiccan sister, and another Arab Muslim stepmother. All of this in a workers village with  friendly families neighbors, also in financial hardship, that included a builders family from Bahia, a Folk Christians artisans and artists family, an Balkan white family, a black Taoist family, and his Jewish godfather and godmother. He kept climbing a fig tree to imagine science fiction love stories of stellar princes and princesses and liked to ask endless questions to learn from the many different fields of expertise of those around him.

**1994. Jesus' Freak, Community Servant, and Tree Astronaut:** Amidst several periods of extreme hunger and poverty and a continued struggle to survive bullying harassment throughout his life, Felipe Ribeiro has decided to meet new people whenever possible, specially elders, to secure his environment so that networking and connections development became to him a vital knowledge. He decided he would become a "tree astronaut" so his family took him to participate in science and arts free courses for children, the one of recycled musical instruments luthiery being the most memorable one to him. He only survived through the assistance of several aid institutions that helped in his sustenance. To recover from the trauma of abuses and malnutrition he started a routine of daily prayer in the Church of the Rosary of Pompeii and Church of Our Lady of Fatima and became an avid learner and students orator. A later near-death experience of being pushed from a gymnasium stair led him to a profound mystical experience of the need to assist everyone, so he denied many offers to be a child model and pop starlet to begin helping in home maintenance, house-building task-forces, and to beg everyone he could to take him to whatever events of religiosity, science, education, and culture they would go to.

## **Solidarity Aid**

**1997. Social Service Technology Teacher Instructional Designer:** After some years in many analogue to slavery sub-employments Felipe Ribeiro was invited to join, as a 14 years old intern, in one of Brazil’s first nonprofit non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the respectable School City Apprentice project of the United Nations Children Education Fund (UNICEF). There he began giving free-libre open source solutions (FLOSS) and history of art classes to all kind of people (elders, children, street artists, journalists, etc) under the guidance of internationally respected educators. In this process he helped connecting the new technologies continental network and set up the country's first telecenters in slums, where they developed one of the pioneering digital literacy programs in the world, which included courses on operating systems, files organization, internet search, and web development. This period was fundamental for flourishing his informatic cybernetics approach to the scientific methodology and solutions journalism.

**1998. Open Source Cultural Developer:** Felipe Ribeiro's collaborative internet researches led him to get to know and become a part of the open software and free culture movements with whom he helped to develop some of our country's first maker spaces and fab labs in intergenerational congresses and festivals that merged traditional knowledge with most advanced technologies. These prototype projects  later inspired the creation of the Cultural Ministry (MinC) 'Pontos de Cultura' and 'Cultura Viva' programmes, at the same time that supporting the Education Ministry (MinEd) massive use of open access and UNESCO Open Educational Resources (OER) from 2004 to 2014. In this period, he also kept studying and practicing music, had a progressive rock band, and composed for other groups.

## **Philosophy Scholarship**

**2001. Electroacoustic Contemporary Opera Composer:** Felipe Ribeiro kept his childhood passion for classical and traditional music studies which led him to acousmatics and psychoacoustics, now adding several new computational harmonic spectral stochastic analysis open source data scientist skills. His works directing the creation of in-field site-specific operas with endangered communities were recognized with international awards which assisted him to pay his studies and made him a respected and requested multimedia artist, specially in the field of site-specific immersive electroacoustic video-mapping contemporary operas collaborative composition, an art director, a coach lecturer, and a practical workshop coordinator. That allowed him to collaborate with the most renowned museums, laboratories, biennials, festivals, galleries, residencies, critics, producers, visual artists, dance and theater companies, ensembles, composers, and cinema studios.&#x20;

**2003. Mental Health Social Support (MHPSS) Schizoanalyst:** After training in compassionate listening, silent meditation, and nonviolent communication while working for the Clinical Philosophy Schizoanalysis Center of the Catholic Pontifex University (PUC), Felipe Ribeiro co-founded a free counseling project for people in public squares and endangered communities such as jailhouses and homeless shelters. Those years of immersion in social service in cooperation with medical, artistic, and endangered communities led him to retake a childhood habit of reading every devices guides and plaque to develop an open access holistic approach to knowledge that led him to become a reader of every possible source of information academic journal, from critical theory to cosmology, from poetics semiotics to laboratory reliability engineering, from paperback novels to instruction guides.

**2004. Cybernetics Philosopher and Open Access Publisher:** Felipe Ribeiro researched throughout the beginning of the millenium how to merge his practices as a popular teacher of education in emergency (EiE) and aid solidarity social development with the concepts of stochastics fuzzy logics. He went through system analysis high school in the Technical Faculty of São Paulo (FATEC), psychology baccaulerate in the University of São Paulo People (UNIP), musicology in the Free School of Music (ELM), and philosophy in the Catholic Pontifex University (PUC) where he decided to also apply general systems theory semiolinguistic cybernetics and philosophy of religious education to the popular education. This led him to apply the concepts of ethics philosophy to the aesthetics of fine art and cultural diplomacy and, due to the number of important unknown researchers and artists he met in lots of respected summits and festivals, he co-founded some record labels and publishers with different groups.

## **Cultural Development**

**2006. Sustainable Logistics Cultural Heritage Ecomuseologic Curator:** Felipe Ribeiro  produced and curated in many solidarity economy festivals and fairs at the same time that developing ecomuselogic projects in collections, such as the Prado Museum of Madrid and Republic National Museum of Brasília. That led him to work intimately with countless stakeholders from the UNESCO World Heritage Center (WHC) and International Council of Museums (ICOM) until he joined the ICOFOM MINOM Digital Resources for Online Public Services (DROPS) Ecomuseology Platform, United Nations Create 2030 for Sustainable Development Goals Arts Major Group, Future for Religious Heritage (FRH), and the Open Heritage (OH) Platform, among many other of the most important institutions in the field. He defends cultural workers rights promoting the policies and methodologies he assisted to develop in the Latin America Art Workers Network.

**2008. Wikipedagogy Open Education:** Felipe Ribeiro lectured countless masterclasses, long-term courses, and short-term practical in-field workshops for all types of audiences about the most varied range of fields of inquiry, always looking for practical rule of law (RoL) sustainable development (SD) glocal free libre open source solutions (FLOSS). He was a pioneer in merging cybernetics, cultural diplomacy, and ecomuseology in heritage safeguard, always with a ethical-poetic way of simple expression, affectionate storytelling, and precision procedures. For this innovative methodology merging the most advanced artscrafts with humanitarian compassionate listening art therapy and nonviolent communication art education he was recognized with several awards, grants, and scholarships such as the honor of teaching classes of opera composition for secondary schools all over Denmark through a program of the Danish Royal Academy of Arts. Some years later, his collaborative open art was also recognized in the realm of contemporary religious art with the 'Theopoetics Awards' of the Society of Arts, Religion, and Culture (ARC) and the 'Minnie Jane Quaker Art Award' of the Pendle Hill Arts Centre of Philadelphia.&#x20;

**2011. Eco-Parks Environmental Social Governance (ESG) Ranger (Rg.):** A biophilic scout since youth and a plants from garbage slum urban gardener, Felipe Ribeiro has assisted many tribal, rural, and urban communities with sharing open space solutions while developing projects like downtown collaborative agroforest orchards, nature cleaning, and ecological cultural rights policymaking. This, along his first-aid and firefight brigadier training, led him to become a respected sustainable co-developer of projects in natural reserves and sacred natural sites (SNS) all over the regions of the Visconde Mauá Ecovillages Valley, the Peruvian Cordilleras Sacred Valley, the Amazon Jungle, the Atacama Desert, ABC Afro-Religious Quilombos and Terreiros, the White Cliffs of Dover, Pendle Hill, Copacabana of Bolivia,  Antarctica, the Argentina-Chile Great Vulcans, and Xixová Japuy, many of which are protected as natural heritage sites of humanity by the United Nations Education Science Culture (UNESCO).

## **Religious Ministry**

**2013. Reverend Minister (Rev.) and Theology Scholar:** Felipe Ribeiro, then, had a series of life-changing experiences that culminated in an interfaith pilgrimage to remember his ancestral puritan religious roots which assisted him in basing his nonviolent rule of law (RoL) solidarity life choice. This way he became in duty to assist as a temples janitor in many sacred places, like his grandfather. That took him through a long and profound journey assisting even more endangered communities, that led him to acknowledge his privileges as an artist even more and his own spiritual path. He was ordained a Deacon (Dcn.) cleaner and Justice of Peace (J.P.) Reverend Minister (Rev.) by the Unitarian Christian Fellowship (UCF) and served as a counselor in desert tribal common house huts, forest cathedrals, mountain refuges, slum garage churches, vulcan lodges, swamp sacred natural sites, roadside chapels, mall nonstop praying rooms, and the most respected international seminaries online forums. He found his own religious home in his love for Jesus Christ, which led him to be convinced him to take the Churches of Peace nonviolence, truthfulness, charity, simplicity, and discretion pledges of testimony and was ordained.&#x20;

**2015. Church Founder and Chaplain (Ch.) Missionary (Mis.):** Felipe Ribeiro began to study in free courses of the most respected international seminaries and university's interfaith studies cathedras, including in the Harvard Divinity School (HDS) and Starr King Seminary, until he was re-ordained some times and co-founded the Unitarian Universalist Association of Brazil and Portugal. He sheltered, guided, counseled, accompanied, baptized, gave unction, and married several people in the newborn First Unitarian Universalist (UU) Quaker Church of São Paulo. This way he could assist countless local and international communities and institutions in missions, at the same time that practicing the most disciplined high church liturgical ordinances, under the audit of some of the most respected religious leaders. Since he was menaced in Brazil and two of his interfaith partners were murdered he is working as a missionary with communities abroad. He participates daily in countless organizations, networks, and events of the [Peace Churches](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peace_churches) living tradition.

## **Peace Humanitarianism**

**2016. Peace Culture Secular Interfaith Diplomacy:** Felipe Ribeiro went through a decade of some of the most excellent postgraduate courses, seminars, forums, congresses, and summits so that he became acquainted with being a developer of inter-religious interfaith interconvictional agents creation programs amidst emergency situations along the most exigent academic community. This led him to important study groups, think tanks, and cathedras of the most renowned universities worldwide in the most varied range of research fields, with publications in traditional journals. Locally he led the Interfaith Front for Peace and Justice Dom Paulo Evaristo Arns and the Rio de Janeiro Inter-Religious Movement (MIR) using the aid open governance techniques he co-developed with the Joint Learning Initiative on Faith and Local communities (JLIF\&LC) and OMNIA Interfaith Peacemaker. Internationally, he mapped the best free libre open source solutions (FLOSS) from nonprofits in a seminal database, yet to be published, meanwhile assisting the Religions for Peace (RfP) Interfaith Rainforest Initiative (IRI), the United Religions Initiative (URI) World Council, and many other policymaking summits along the most respected organizations, where he served as an expert consultant, board chairperson, and ambassador of peace (Amb.P.).

**2017. Humanitarian Harm-Reduction Social Developer:** Along this journey, Felipe Ribeiro was able to assist countless people in the most varied sorts of situations by directing and co-organizing the ideation, research, production, and promotion of social service projects and programs along many endangered communities such as homeless people, prison population, indigenous tribes, vegetarian solidarity kitchen, art collectives, (neuro)divergent people, unemployed and subemployed unionless workers, elders movements, minority religious traditions, desperate millionaires, LGBT+ communities, and servants of the most respected international organizations. This allowed him to start to use his cultural projects to also create community centers and emergency response projects creation programs so that when the pandemic arrived, he had enough experience to co-organize with only 100 other civil agents the survival of São Paulo downtown's more than 60.000 homeless families and other in-risk populations.

## **International Policymaking**

**2018. Rule of Law (RoL) Supreme Courts Amicus Curiae (A.C.):** Felipe Ribeiro applied what he has learnt from his whole life experience and the best international graduation specialization courses in the creation of municipal, state, and federal public policymaking processes in the fields of anti-religious-racism commissions creation, homeless rights defense, urban planning sustainable development, freedom of religion or belief (FoRB), and even the very public international law (PIL) secular democratic state itself. With that knowledge he assisted several international non-governmental organizations (INGOs) to replicate best practices. That allowed him to be a respected organizer of massive nonviolent demonstration acts and international public letters for human rights defense. This way, he became an expert consultant of the Order of the Lawyers of Brazil (OAB) and an Amicus Curiae (A.C.) of some countries Federal Supreme Courts in different occasions.

**2020. Open Internet Semantic Ontology DevSecOps:** In the pandemic, apart from emergency humanitarian crises response and assisting the development of open source technologies for healthcare, Felipe Ribeiro began to work as an expert consultant on open ethics and open standards for the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) using his lifetime of contributions for the Free Softare movement, GNU Linux Community, Open Data Institute (ODI), and International Association for Ontology and its Applications (IAOA), among other concerning institutions. He was able to assist in the development of some vital technological infrastructure for the common good which made him a delegate in the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) +20, UNESCO International Institute on Educational Planning (IIEP), International Telecommunications Union (ITU), and several other high-tech policymaking open infra task-forces.

**2021. United Nations (UN) High Commissariats Expert Consultant Scholar:** To keep the endangered international communities he looks after, in his various fields of expertise, he was honored with consulting and developing open governance policymaking processes at the United Nations (UN) System's Alliance of Civilizations (UNAoC), High Commissioner of Human Rights (OHCHR), Environmental Programme (UNEP), Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Education Science Culture Organization (UNESCO), International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP), International Children Education Fund (UNICEF), Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Working Party on Regulatory Cooperation and Standardization Policies (WP.6), International Telecommunications Union (ITU), World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), University Twinning and Networking Programme (UNITWIN) Cathedras, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Create2030 Arts Major Group, and Summit of the Future, and several General Assemblies (UNGA) until he was honored of being a delegate of some United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) and the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights 75th Anniversary (UDHR+75). Now he shares the countless best practices he met worldwide with anyone interested in working for the common good, having saved countless lives worldwide, as you can see in his [credentials](credentials.md). He and his family still go through financial hardships, so please [sponsor](sponsor.md) his life mission any way you can.

> _"When the priest told me we are the ancestors of the future I took it really seriously."_

## **Open Peer Review**

**Write about Felipe Ribeiro Methodology and Works** in individual endorsements, news reports, public interviews, press releases, academic peer-reviews, philosophical essays, and poetic literature. If it is in compliance with our editorial ethics we will publish you here. If you want to interview him, please enter in [contact](contacts.md). Also do follow his [RiseUp Newsletter](https://lists.riseup.net/www/info/operarioribeiro) to know about his future projects and [propose projects collaboration](contacts.md).

| <p><a href="contacts.md"><strong>Contacts</strong></a><br>Proposals Interviews</p> | <p><a href="https://lists.riseup.net/www/info/operarioribeiro"><strong>RiseUp</strong></a><br>Agenda Newsletter</p> | <p><a href="broken-reference"><strong>Sponsor</strong></a><br>Collect, Buy, Donate</p> |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

## Open License

**The** [**Felipe Ribeiro Official Website**](https://operarioribeiro.gitbook.io/) **is Developed Using** [Xubuntu GNU Linux](https://xubuntu.org/), [GNOME Text Editor (GEdit)](https://gedit-text-editor.org/), [GNU Images Manipulation Program (GIMP)](https://gimp.org/), [Libre Office](https://libreoffice.org/), [Firefox Browser](https://mozilla.org/firefox), and [GitBook](https://gitbook.com/).

> **Licensed for Nonviolent Nonprofit Open Education Fair Use Under** [Creative Commons Attributive Non-Commercial Share-Alike (CC BY-NC-SA) 4.](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0)[0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0) along [Ethical Source](https://ethicalsource.dev/) [Do No Harm Hippocratic](https://firstdonoharm.dev/)[ License 3.0](https://firstdonoharm.dev/) and [Contributor Covenant](https://contributor-covenant.org/) through the [European Union Public License (EUPL)](https://commission.europa.eu/about/departments-and-executive-agencies/digital-services/open-source-strategy-history/european-union-public-licence_en) [Interoperability Downstream Compatibility](https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/eupl/how-use-eupl) as an [United Nations Education Science Culture Organization (UNESCO) 2019 Recommendation](https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000383205?posInSet=11\&queryId=c113a623-2bd5-45ce-a4aa-ea2389aa5e95) compliant [Open Educational Resources (OER)](https://www.unesco.org/en/open-educational-resources).
